.. title: Web control, text over video plus more - Latest v2 update
.. slug: 2010/05/03/web-control-text-over-video-plus-more-latest-v2-update
.. date: 2010-05-03 18:05:33 UTC
.. tags: 
.. description: 

Being a rainy public holiday here in the UK, I decided it would be a
good time to update you all on v2, since we've now sailed past revision
800 and there have been a number of changes since the last update.

I've been continuing to work on Song Imports and have now added the
ability to import Word/Writer and Powerpoint/Impress documents via an
interface with OpenOffice.org. The import itself is fairly basic and
makes some assumptions on the format of the file, but will hopefully
save some typing in many cases. I've also worked on the remote interface
and now made it possible to control OpenLP with a web browser. This will
require the remote plugin to be enabled and then connecting to
http://localhost:4316. It's very basic at the moment, and it doesn't
have any inbuilt security so if your church computer is on the internet
or public network then you will need to consider the risks.

Tim has been battling with text over video and has got it working on
some systems, although not on all - but we're hoping to find a solution
for all platforms soon. He has also given us line spacing adjustments,
the ability to override the output resolution if preparing a service for
a computer with a different setup, the show desktop and theme output
buttons are now working, some nice drag and drop improvements and an
improved Nursery Alert system.

Meanwhile Jon has been working on saving the application layout so
everything looks the same as when you last ran it, a recent file list
and a fair bit of cleaning up after the mess some of us other devs leave
behind :)

Raoul has made some improvements to the song editor to allow author
names to be typed in and auto-completed, which is easier than choosing
from a big list. Finally, in development are also some
internationalisation fixes, song import wizard improvements and one
developer has also been experimenting with spell-check, but we'll have
to wait and see if this makes it into the final version.

Alpha 2 is still a fair way off, but as you can see there are going to
be a good number of improvements. If you want to see what we're hoping
to achieve, then please check out our Milestone page
