.. title: Where are all the OpenLP users?
.. slug: 2010/02/02/where-are-all-the-openlp-
.. date: 2010-02-02 13:02:57 UTC
.. tags: 
.. description: 

A few days ago, sjpslabbert asked the question in a forum post how many
people are using OpenLP? As I said in the reply, it's close to
impossible to answer that question. All we know is that we average 100
downloads a day, there were over 16000 downloads of version 1.0.1, this
site has over 2500 registered users and we are approaching 200 fans on
facebook.

What we don't know is how many of those downloads are new users who go
on to use OpenLP regularly.

So I thought perhaps we could add a page to our wiki where users could
add their church, if using OpenLP. However since the wiki is currently
focused towards v2.0 development it wasn't really appropriate. Also as
good as a list is (e.g. see Drupal's) it needs to be maintained and not
everyone knows their alphabet. I know this from my churches pre-OpenLP
days trying to keep our large box of OHP transparencies in order!

So then I wondered if we could use google maps. I had seen the map of
OpenLP developers locations on launchpad and investigated doing the same
for OpenLP users.

The keen eyed among you will have spotted the **Worldwide Usage** on the
left hand menu. If you a regular OpenLP user, or hope to be, it would be
great if you log into your Google account, head over to the map, click
the edit button. Then just drag a placemarker to your churches location
(you might want to zoom in a bit) and put a little comment with the name
of your church and how you use it.

Over time this will then give us an idea of where the regular users are
and perhaps might even help us know which translations or culture
specific features will benefit the most people.

*And whilst I'm blogging*... As some of you know, I maintain a few
utilities to help do a few things with openlp which are not currently
built in. You'll be pleased to know that the 2.0 team are doing a good
job at incorporating some of this functionality into the new version.
However a new budding utilityist has wandered onto our shores, cowjam.
He has written a web-based OpenSong converter, which I'm sure will be
easier to use than mine and helps add functionality to the opensong
importer built into 1.2. If you have need to import opensong songs or
bibles, please check it out.

 
